Hey, thanks for joining me. In today's
episode, I'm going to do something a
little different. I want to share with
you the best ways, in my opinion, for
anyone who wants to start a side hustle
to be able to evaluate the side hustle
opportunities. I mean, let's face it,
there's a ton of information out there,
there's tons of noise. Is this the right
side hustle? People think you should
start affiliate marketing. Is it MLM?
Should you do master reselling rights?
What about starting your own digital
marketing agency? Or becoming a social
media manager? becoming a virtual
assistant? There's so many ways to make
extra money online, but the last thing
you want to do is pick the wrong one and
feel like you've been scammed, or worse
yet, waste time and money.
So, what I'm going to share with you now
is a live training that I did where I
walk you through, first of all, our own
experience in creating additional
streams of income, why we had to do that
when we hit rock bottom when we only had
one form of income. And And I think most
people out there today only have one
form of income. If that's you, this
episode is for you. But, it's a little
different. I want you to take this
episode or listen to this episode with a
pen and a piece of paper because I'm
going to walk through a series of
questions and I'm going to help you
evaluate, if you're considering adding
an additional stream of income, which
one is the best for you because they're
not all right for all people. Even if
they're a great way to make money, even
if they're perfectly legitimate, it
might not be right for you.
So, don't get talked into something
because of the hype or because people
are making tons of money at it when it's
the wrong fit. All right, without
further ado, let's get to it.
Welcome everybody to the master or the
multiple streams of income uh webinar
training. I'm going to share with you
today a lot of great information. I'm
going to go fast. My name is Chalene
Johnson. I'll tell you a little bit
about myself in just a moment. Before we
get to that, I just want to share with
you some inspiration, like a bunch of
people who look like you who or don't
look like you, just ideas because I
personally find when I hear other
people's ideas, it gives me
like creativity. It shoots all these
sparks off in my brain and I'm like, oh
my gosh, I have a million ideas. So, let
me just play give you a couple of those
and then we'll formally get started. How
about that? I'm a physical therapist
with multiple clinics here in the Tampa
Bay area and I'm also a business coach
and personal development coach for
healthcare professionals. I'm an author,
speaker, and the host of the Self-Made
Trailblazer podcast. And I'm also a
homeschooling mom of five. I'm an online
fitness and nutrition coach and I've
been trying to build my business for the
last 8 years.
I am a vocal coach, singer, songwriter.
I help people sing and speak better. I
am a private investigator and security
specialist and I own Lockdown Your Life.
I help protect your privacy, your
profit, and peace of mind.
I'm a freelance makeup artist, stylist,
and branding expert. And I work in the
corporate world. I'm a registered nurse,
online personal trainer, and an
inspiring author. I help softball
players train to be their best in
softball and in life. I worked 12 to 14
hour workdays. I was teaching during the
day and I coached at night and I coached
all throughout the year. I coached three
different sports, a sports that I didn't
even love
and I was burnt out. I burnt the candle
at both ends and my health started to
suffer. I'm a psychotherapist and I have
a private practice in San Clemente,
California. I was a private practice
therapist for over 19 years with a brick
and mortar psychotherapy business. I'm a
corrective exercise specialist with the
Brenham Fitness Center in Brenham, Texas
as well as my health and wellness
website where I serve people through a
fitness app.
I'm the founder and CEO of Coffee Date
Media. We are a content marketing and
social media marketing agency based out
of North Carolina.
I was working full-time as an attorney
in New York City
and
I was very unclear about how to monetize
my online presence. And by day I'm an
engineer and at night I'm a fitness
coach. I am a personal trainer / fitness
coach. I help overwhelmed mamas get
dinner on the table. I was already
considered a professional food blogger.
I had a full-time business established
and although I loved that part of my
work I just I felt this strong pull that
I was meant to do more. So uh I wanted
to just share with you some of those
creative ideas. What you probably heard
from a lot of these people
is that they had a job. They had a
career in some cases and and in some
instances you heard people who were
already entrepreneurs like the therapist
or the physical therapist um and they
had a physical business, a brick and
mortar, right?
But then they increased their income and
earning potential by leveraging a
different side hustle. That doesn't mean
you have to quit your job. It doesn't
mean you have to leave the thing that
you're doing. It means that it's really
important today to look at multiple
streams of income and that's exactly
what we're going to do. So let me just
share with you very briefly what today
is going to look like. I'm going to go
over our own personal streams of income,
the order in which we built them. I'm
going to be very honest about the ones
that make the most sense. Um and PS, the
order in which we built them uh
is very different from the order in
which I suggest people build their own
incomes. I'm also going to share with
you then
I think like 14, 15 different ideas that
I think are really well positioned for
that additional stream of income. So
these aren't like necessarily the thing
that I would tell you to do that takes
40 hours a week. I want to share with
you things that are like super quick.
You can do it while you're doing
whatever it is you're doing, whether
that's, you know, being a full-time mom
or an attorney, whatever. You can do it
at the same time to get started. I'm
also going to share with you some people
who've done it. You know, because it's
one I I've watched these videos where
there's people like, "You can make
$5,000
uh being a secret shopper." I'm like,
do you show me someone who's done that?
So, I can actually show you people
who've done this. And then
you'll be able to answer your questions.
This is kind of the the reason the
the motivation behind today's training.
I think we all could agree that in 2023
financial security really does require
more than one stream of income. And I
know that has been true for many years,
but today probably more so than ever.
Let's talk about why.
First is uh let's start with my own
story. Um I am from Michigan. I wanted
to go to college. I wanted to get a
degree.
I also knew that nobody in my family had
ever gone to college. No one had ever
even considered it to my knowledge. I
also knew that I we didn't have money to
do that. But my parents were always very
encouraging and they're like, "Well, you
know, you've figured out other ways to
make money and buy things for yourself.
I'm
we have no doubt that you're going to
find a way to pay for your own tuition."
And so with their encouragement, that's
what I did. You know, I was full-time
student at the time. And I also started
waitressing. I started selling knives
door-to-door with Cutco.
I bought my own jewelry
from a wholesaler in downtown Detroit.
And then would have parties. This was
not an an MLM. I would have parties in
my parents' home in the living room to
sell the jewelry that I had bought in
downtown Detroit to make extra money so
I could raise that money for college.
Then I started buying used vehicles uh
beat-up cars. Like my very first vehicle
you're looking at on the screen was an
orange El Camino Real. Uh orange El
Camino, that's what it was. And uh it
was disgusting and ugly, but I had it
painted for $99. Had it painted black.
Cleaned it up cosmetically. Resold it
and made a bunch of money, in my mind
anyway. So, very quickly figured out how
to make
my own money
because I wanted to. Like I had a why.
So,
do it did I have girlfriends who
would never have done this, who were in
the same position where they they could
their parents couldn't afford to send
them to college, and they
therefore didn't go to college?
Absolutely. What was the difference
between them and me? I wanted it badder.
I wanted it a lot more than they did.
And so, I was like, whatever the
obstacle, I'll figure it out. I don't
care what it takes. I'm I'm going to do
this. And I did. I got into Michigan
State. One of the businesses that I
carried through to be able to pay for my
rent and living expenses and food and,
you know, 25 cent beers was selling
vehicles. I continued selling
automobiles. I started my very first
incor- LLC, which was uh the All
Michigan Auto Swap Meet. You can see on
the screen. It's very fuzzy because
these pictures are so old, but that
that's me at Michigan State with a big
poofy bangs. And uh that's an article
where I was featured in the front page
of the Lansing State Journal because I
had come up with this idea. The idea was
really just solving a problem. I was
selling cars privately, and it was a
pain in the butt. It was dangerous. It
was sketchy. It was inconvenient. I'm
like, why can't everybody come together
in one location on one day? I'll host
it. They can all pay me a little fee,
but I'll host all the people who want to
buy from a private owner and want to
sell from you know, sell to a a private
buyer. And uh so, that's the idea behind
that.
Uh one night out at the bar, I met this
really cute guy. His name is Brett. I
later found out that he was a football
player, quarterback at Michigan State.
He asked me to be his girlfriend. I
said, sure, that sounds great. I'm like,
do you have any friends who can help me
work this automobile swap meet on the
weekends? He's like, I'm sure I do." So,
like it really worked out, you know? So,
we we we did that. Eventually, I did
graduate from Michigan State and we got
married and lived happily ever after.
I continued with all my businesses. Like
I I love business. I loved
entrepreneurship because I even and I
also was working. I was also an
employee. So, I was working as a
paralegal. I did a million different
things. What was my degree in? It
doesn't really even matter cuz I barely
freaking graduated. I was have always
been a horrible student because I have
ADHD.
But because I have ADHD, I also believe
it makes me an incredible entrepreneur.
Because I see details, I see problems, I
see solutions, I see patterns, I see
systems. So, we Brett and I continued
dating, you know, we we moved from
Southern California. I'm working
full-time as a paralegal.
And in addition to that, I am doing all
these different side hustles.
And I I hear from a mentor, like I I
start really studying business and I
hear
you just need to focus on one first. And
so I'm like, "Okay, so that's what we're
going to do, Brett." And Brett was also
working full-time at that time. He had a
little stint in the CF or in the CFL,
you know, playing football after
college. But then it was just the two of
us trying to start a family and we've
got two kids. He's working full-time. I
talk him into quitting his job and I'm
like, "We're going to go all in on one
of my ideas." I've got this idea because
Have you ever heard of Jazzercise? Well,
it's kind of like a long line to
Jazzercise. My mom had taught Jazzercise
and I had this idea. I took the idea
from Jazzercise of like, you know,
creating a workout with the music and
the routine and putting music to it like
they did, but like updated, like super
cool, like hip-hop music and kickboxing
and I combined all these things together
and I started teaching this class and it
took off in the gym, right? Now, I'm
still working as a paralegal, but I'm
like, "Dude, let's quit let's quit
everything and let's go all in on this.
So, we did. It was called Powder Blue
Productions. I mean,
you know, this original idea was back in
1999, I think, is when we started it.
And so, this was my baby, and we went
all freaking in.
And it was working.
And we were crushing. We're also very,
very, very busy cuz we didn't know how
to outsource, we didn't know how to
delegate, we didn't know we didn't know
how to create systems, but we knew how
to make money. Like, we we made this
business and we knew how to make money.
And then, um,
you know, I'm not going to get into the
details because my story is less
important than the things I need to
share with you today, but I will just
say this that there's lots of details
behind this, but we ended up in 1 year
massively in debt due to some personal
decisions and addiction.
We found ourselves with this successful
business
that no matter how successful it was,
there was no way we were going to be
able to
claw our way out of debt.
And we were up against the wall. And I
I'm I don't know if you've ever been
that situation, but it's very, very
stressful. Even if you your marriage is
great, it ain't when there's that level
of stress. Like, it is so hard to hide
that from your kids. It's so hard not to
just wear that on your face. It's so
hard not to be thinking about it 24/7.
And we got ourselves into a a heap of
trouble. Um, we decided we did not want
to file for bankruptcy. We decided
instead that we were going to create
additional streams of income. I'm like,
I've done this before. I can do this
again. I can figure out like I've I've
I've been with my back against the wall
and thought like I don't have any
additional time, but if I'm smart, if
I'm really, really smart, I I can find
ways
and here's what I had to do. I I had to
figure out like, how can we create
additional streams of income that don't
jeopardize the thing that's most
important to us,
which is which still is today, our kids
and our family and our marriage. Like
how
can we do this and not like kill
ourselves? So, I went into research mode
and started like looking at Okay, what
what are our additional streams of
income? Like how could I create
something that's a little bit more
passive? I mean, I know you have to do
some work. Anyone who tells you
something is fully passive,
that would just have to be an
inheritance.
But I knew I could find something that
was
that would work with our family. And so,
I started doing research and I started
taking seminars and workshops and
studying the you know, the people who
were doing this, the people who were
teaching this at the time. Luckily, the
internet was a thing. Um not like it is
today, but like I could find people and
books and podcasts and seminars. I knew
I couldn't go back to school, but I had
to learn this stuff. So, I started
investing even when we didn't have any
money. When I say didn't have any money,
I mean we were below We had over
$400,000 in debt.
And I was still I'm like I don't care. I
I need to know how to do this in order
to get out of this debt.
So, that's what we did. And I'm sure a
lot of you can relate to being in debt
and what that feels like. It's a
horrible feeling.
You know what I'm talking about when you
go to the uh
grocery store and you hand them your
credit card and you're like, "Oh, I
really pray I really pray that they
don't say declined." It's the worst
feeling in the world. I'm sure you guys
have all done that before. Where you're
just like, "No, no, no, please." Right?
And recent statistic, the average
American household in 2023, are you
ready for this? This shocked me.
This is from uh motleyfool.com.
The average American household debt in
2023 is over $100,000. Isn't that crazy?
And that includes a lot of things,
right? That's education and home and
cars and credit card debt and just money
owed to other people.
That's why I mean, it's always in my
opinion, it's always been smart to have
multiple streams of income and I learned
that the hard way. I think a lot of
people have learned that the hard way
through COVID. Like people who owned a
great business, but then it closed or
the industry completely changed due to
COVID. We've seen so many people getting
laid off recently because of AI. Like
just changes in industries and that's
why, you know, the smartest man when it
comes to money in my mind, uh Warren
Buffett says, "Never depend on a single
source of income." And I think that
those are wise words.
You know the reasons why you need
multiple streams of incomes. It's
medical bills, layoffs, downsizing, AI.
You could go through a divorce. Oh my
gosh, having like having a uh
huge medical bill, that
puts people in bankruptcy every single
year. Educational costs, events like
COVID, inflation. So, what was my very
first additional stream of income? I
looked at one of the courses that I
bought
on cassette, which was Tony Robbins
Personal Power.
And I was like, "Okay, wait a second."
So, that was just information. That was
just knowledge.
And he recorded it
and he sold it.
And he didn't have to like go and
deliver a speech. So, I wouldn't have to
like leave my kids or anything. So, like
and I have knowledge and I was teaching
fitness classes. And the one thing
everyone kept telling me is like,
"You're so motivational. You're so
uplifting. You're so, you know, all
these things." And I'm like, "I ain't no
Tony Robbins, but that seems like a
pretty dang good idea."
So, I copied him.
I copied him exactly almost. So, his
cassettes right here, you got 12
cassettes.
In mine, you got 12 CDs. And it was
called Car Smart.
And I named it that because I felt like
an impostor even creating this program.
I felt like oh my gosh, people are going
to think like
"What college did you graduate from?"
I'm like, "I didn't. Like I I'm just
smart in my car. I'm smart about cars.
I'm just smart about some things." So,
I'm just going to call it Car kind of
like street smart, you know? And um I
just recorded just my opinion on things.
I gave like 12 different pieces of
advice and I sold it. And it was an
incredible first source of income from
us. And then I did one better than that.
Because people bought it, I was like
I can turn this into monthly recurring
revenue, MRR, monthly recurring revenue.
I'm like, I can create a new car smart
every month and people can get onto a
subscription where they get a new one
every month and that's what I did. And
it's kind of crazy like full circle, 2
weeks ago I was speaking for Tony and uh
Dean Graziosi at their event. It was
kind of weird. I've never told I had
many conversations with Tony Robbins.
I've never told him that story.
But that is the truth. So the very first
thing that I started off with was that
was a physical product. It wasn't even a
digital product. At first it was At
first it was a physical product. And
additional physical products that we
launched were uh the push journal, water
bottles, they're quite
fitness apparel. We had lots of physical
products. I will tell you I'm going to
just jump to the, you know, answer and
tell you I'm I'm do not want you to
start with physical products. I don't.
It's way too hard. Um I think it's It's
It's not that it's too hard that
what it is is much easier to do other
things. So then the next thing what I
did was I started um looking into what
it would take to license my own ideas,
license my own um creations, my own
intellectual property rights, my own
fitness workouts. What kind of income
could I make if I wrote a book and then
sold the royalties for it? So our next
stream of income was uh licensing and
royalty rights. And then to just go from
there, then we went into digital
products like courses and academies. Um
I became a paid expert. You know, in
each one of these over the course of,
you know, since their inception, each
one of these has made us over a million
dollar every one of these, well over.
Every one of them.
And most of these we still have. In
fact, yeah, all of these we still have.
We have We have all of these streams. We
might not have all the same products uh
because you eventually figure out how to
work smart, okay? I will say this. So,
we went physical products. I wouldn't
tell you to start with that first. We're
going to get into that. Royalties,
licensing, love that. Digital products,
love those. Being becoming a paid
expert, so fun. So freaking fun to get
paid six figures to speak.
That's unheard of, but it's not
actually. I just can't believe I'm in
that position now. Um brand deals,
sponsorships, affiliate sales, that's a
huge source of income for us. Uh income
properties, a great source of income for
us. Dividend stocks and investments
takes the cake on all of this. But, we
didn't start really making like a huge
portfolio until all these other streams
allowed us to pour that money into our
investments. And then, of course,
capital gains or sales of those assets.
All right, so why is it that I want you
to focus on a not a big big big idea,
but like a small small small idea? I
want you to focus on a small simple side
hustle to start. Something you can do in
your spare time. And here's why I want
you to start, and this may be
counterintuitive to some of the things
you've heard or what you think you need
to do right now. Because you might think
that you need you need something big.
You need something that like will pay
the mortgage, and people will be so
proud of you, and you can finally quit
your job. And I'm telling you, when you
do that, you aim too big.
You aim too big. You are not too old.
You are not too busy. You are You just
have to have belief in yourself, and in
my opinion, and this isn't just based on
anecdotal research. This is based on
working with tens of thousands of
people, and the mistakes that we made
early on when I was teaching other
people how to do this is I would teach
them how to create their big idea.
And it rarely happened. Like so few
people can do that because it's much
harder. So, what I love to do is help
people go, "Let's pick an additional
stream of income."
Let's take the fear out of it. Let's
take the risk out of it, and let's let's
get you some success. How does that
sound? Does that sound like less
intimidating for you? So, here's what we
know about when you start small.
Uh 67%
more likely to succeed.
Uh it is very simple to start. You can
do so part-time.
And in my estimation, it is that
part-time like, "Yeah, I don't know if
I'm that into selling cars or Yeah, I
don't know if I'm that into
selling whatever it is, but it's making
me some extra income." What that does
is it gives you runway. And by runway,
here's what I mean. I mean, it helps you
to figure out like, "What do I really
want to do? What do I like? What about
this is not my thing? What about this is
my thing? What about this could has
given me the idea to do something else
and make it bigger?" Oh, and also, it
gives you the financial runway to invest
in whatever you need to get to the next
level.
Okay? So, all of this, in my opinion,
is something you have to decide. I
cannot tell you what is the best
business for you to start because
it's like buying a wedding dress. It can
be the I can say, "This is the most
beautiful dress in the world. It's also
the best priced." Right? But if it's not
your style,
does that make any sense?
If someone said, "I have the the least
expensive, most beautiful gown you've
ever seen in your life."
But it looks horrible on you. Are you
going to wear that? No.
So, there's some very important factors
that you need to consider because the
side hustle that you select
makes a huge difference. Okay?
So, here's what I want to say to you.
All of these different side hustles,
every single one I'm about to go over is
legitimate.
None of them are scams.
However,
if you pick the wrong side hustle and
you feel pressured into doing it,
and someone sells you like this is the
one you have to do and you get sold into
doing something that is the wrong fit
for you, you feel scammed.
That doesn't mean that industry should
be written off or doesn't have isn't
legitimate. It's legitimate. You're but
you're going to feel scammed when you
get talked into doing something where
you're like this ain't right for me.
But they all work. And every single one
of them I'm about to show you, there are
people who are making a little bit of
money and there are people making a
whole lot of money
and there are people who are making zero
dollars.
Okay?
But none of them are scams.
Are there scammy people in all of these?
Yeah, and guess what? There are scammy
people in politics, there are scammy
people in church, there are scammy
people in the medical field, there are
scammy people in in everything. If
there's humans involved, we are flawed.
Okay? That doesn't mean
that it's not right for you, but you
have to be really really honest about
what's involved and most people aren't
going to give you all the information to
be honest. Do you know why? Because they
want you to do it because they make
money if you do it. I Listen
hear me clearly. I don't make a dime.
It doesn't matter at all to me what you
pick. I don't care.
The people who I work with, they do
everything. Like every single industry
I'm about to show you, I have students
who do all of these things. In fact, I'm
going to share with you their stories.
But
I don't care which one you pick.
But I do care that you pick the right
one cuz if you pick the wrong one
it is going to
it's going to be a lot slower and then
you're going to feel scammed, right? And
and then you're not successful and I
hate that. I I like to see people be
very successful. So, here are the things
you need to consider. They are um how
much time do you have available weekly
and how much time will it take basically
to get up and running in this business.
How much of a following do you really
need? I know people always say like oh
you don't need any following at all.
Well, a lot of them it's pretty helpful.
So, if you don't have a following, just
know it's going to be a lot harder.
How long before you start making money?
You also need that
cuz that might be important to you or
might not be. Like maybe you're like, "I
don't I I could spend like 2 years. I'm
I'm okay right now. So, it's okay. I It
would be okay if this took me like 2
years to build it." Whereas someone else
might be like, "I am
about to sell my pictures of my feet on
OnlyFans. I I need I need money like
right now, okay?" So, how long and
you've got to look at these and go like,
"Okay, how long is it going to take
before I'm making money?" Do you have
patience? Do you have persistence? Then
how difficult is this? What kind of
skills do you need to succeed, honestly?
What is the short-term earning
potential? What is the long-term earning
potential? Like is this just a flash in
the pan you can make quick money
overnight, but it's probably going to go
away? And then lastly, and this is the I
think the biggest one,
is does it fit your personality and your
lifestyle? Let's get to it, shall we?
First one is e-commerce and drop
shipping.
Minimal time to get started. You do not
need a following. You need This is the
truth. You need zero following. Time it
takes to get a return on your
investment, it's moderate.
Skills,
moderate to advanced. Like you've got to
be really good at being persistent.
You've got to have some tech savvy.
You've got to understand market. Like
you under- You have to understand like
what do people really really want?
And then the long-term potential, it's
good. I think it's good. This I say good
because right now some people are making
great money at it, but I say good
because I think Amazon is making it
tougher and tougher for people to
uh create their own e-commerce stores
outside of an e-commerce marketplace.
I'm getting in the weeds. Some people
have done this. Um Andre Galbraeth, I
love her. She lost her job in 2020. She
was in fitness. She was a health and
fitness coach.
And she was like, "I just don't want to
do this anymore." She uh killed all of
her plants, so she's like, I really love
succ- succulents. I bet and succulents
are really popular right now. I'm going
to create a business where I deliver
succulents to people's businesses and
homes and now she's making six figures
with succulents. It's super cool. Some
of her clients are like Lululemon and
Meta. Robin Donahue. So, she had her own
store, right? And she just like nobody
was coming to her website. So, she was
like, okay, I've got to figure out how
to get my stuff like on a uh on Etsy.
And if I sell my stuff on Etsy, then she
immediately had additional streams of
income. Virtual assistant and support.
Okay, this one I freaking love. Okay, I
love this one, you guys. Because it the
time varies. And here's how it works.
The more you work, the more you're going
to make. This one is very time dependent
because you if you're
someone's hiring you to do some virtual
work, you you have to do the work unless
you outsource a team beneath you to do
that work. But, it's great. You don't
need any following whatsoever to get
started. The return on your investment
is immediate. And and and the only
investment you would have is
you know, investing in someone who can
show you how to do this. Don't try to
figure it out yourself. You won't get
your return on investment. You'll spend
a ton of time. Skills, you really don't
need any technical skills. You only need
the skills that it is your your
marketing,
right? Because those skills are needed,
whether that's for Let me give you some
examples. Organizing somebody's Dropbox.
How about creating Canva slides? How
about uh just booking my appointments
and sending me I have an ADHD virtual
assistant. She manages my ADHD. She
sends me reminders every morning, every
night, before each appointment. Um she
sends me files that I can't find. She
tell she sends me reminders. So, there's
so many different ways that you can
become a virtual assistant. You're
basically
any way that someone might need help
online with tech
is also another opportunity to become a
virtual assistant. Me like you don't
even understand the huge
huge industry of people
who are available to help
I mean who need this help because they
have no clue. Anytime you walk into your
mom's house, what does she say? Hey, can
you show me how to do this on my
computer? So here's some examples of
this. I love Kirk Nugent. He's a a
former missionary who now specializes in
running tech and producing shows on Zoom
and StreamYard for faith-based
entrepreneurs making four $500 per hour.
Delaney works as a VA, so she helps
people schedule their social media. She
helps anyone with something that they
struggle with in terms of like tech or
in the virtual world and she specializes
her niche is in the entertainment
business. Content creation. Okay, so
content creation, this one it varies how
much time it takes. It varies because if
you if you are the content creator,
it takes a lot of time. I'm just going
to be honest about that. For you to make
money as a content creator, you will be
glued to your phone.
But it's possible. It is possible. And
there are different ways to do it. You
can also create content for other
people. Do you need a following?
Moderate is helpful. I mean, if you're
creating content for other people, you
don't necessarily need a following. If
you want to make money as a content
creator, you need at least I'm just
going to be honest, you need at least
5,000 to 10,000 followers.
The skills in my estimation are
advanced. You have to be so freaking
good on camera. You have to be so
creative. You have to know how to edit,
how to use the tools. You have to feel
very very comfortable on camera. And I
think the long-term potential is fair if
you are creating for other people. I
think it's exceptional if you are the
content creator. Let me show you an
example. Yes, we love Emily D Baker.
Okay, so Emily was a a former district
attorney
with purple hair.
And you know, she's my age. I would
think everyone's my age though, but I
think she's roughly my age. Although I
identify as age 35. But anyways, she's
you know, we're never what I'm saying is
she's not a 24-year-old with blonde hair
and the perfect aesthetic at home. You
know what I'm saying? So what she
started doing was just analyzing pop
culture case legal cases.
This woman is now one of the top earning
YouTube streamers.
This is what she started with. This was
her first side hustle, okay?
Let me just say this. A lot of the
people that I'm sharing you their
stories with you right now,
they started with a side hustle and then
they created additional streams. Like
Emily, she's got her own makeup line
now. She is a top paid affiliate. Okay,
so um content creator,
top paid affiliate, uh she's got her own
physical product line, she's a paid
speaker, investments like So once you
pick one real you pick the right side
hustle,
like all the other streams start to show
up. Look her up, Emily D. Baker.
Huge.
Huge. We love her. And she's just
herself.
So you'll enjoy following her if you
like curse words.
Okay, so additional people have done
this. Um Renee Paulson, I love Renee's
story. Renee is one of those people who
wanted to help other people detox from
sugar, started creating content around
that, and now like all the other streams
of income started to fall into place
after she started making money as a
content creator.
Okay, what about being a social media
manager? I love this one. Uh the time
varies. It can be very time-intensive
because you're managing somebody else's
social media or it it could also be
something you're just doing at night. It
just kind of depends on how many clients
you have, right? This is becoming hugely
popular. Do you want to know why? Do you
want to know why? You know why. Because
social media is a It is so hard
to manage, to understand, to figure it
out. You're like, "Wait a second,
there's a a new change on Instagram and
I'm supposed to start doing YouTube
shorts, and TikTok now is uh launching
podcasts. What? I I can't keep up. Yeah.
So, there's a huge need for people who
are social media managers, and they're
like, "I don't want to be on camera. I
don't want to be the content creator,
but I will manage it for the content
creator." You do not need a following to
kill it. You can create I mean, the
other very popular idea that people are
doing right now are social media
management agencies.
So, they're taking on a ton of clients,
and they have people underneath them
that are helping them to do this. The
time on the return on your investment is
pretty quick. The investment would be
not trying to figure it out yourself.
The investment you would need to make,
in my professional opinion, is you
invest in someone who can show you how
to do this the right way.
Why waste time? If you waste time,
you're going to lose the opportunity.
The long-term potential of this is
freaking excellent. It just keeps
getting bigger and bigger and bigger
because more and more
entrepreneurs and business owners are
like, "I need to run my business.
I don't have time to figure this out.
Can you do this for me?"
Personality type. You This is ideal for
you if you're like, "I don't need to be
in the I don't need to be the center of
attention. I don't need to be the it I
am super attention to detail. I know how
to make sure mistakes aren't made."
Um Lindsay Kozlow is one of my favorite
people. Sh- She's been on our podcast
many times. She started her own agency
with our help. You know, she's one of
our students. Uh she was able to leave
her nine-to-five, pay off her husband's
and her own student loans, and this is
what she does because there's huge
demand, and it keeps growing.
Okay. Next, digital download seller.
Okay. So, especially with AI now, oh my
god, this one's got so much potential.
And And of course, the time that it
takes to get involved in it varies.
Here's what I love about it. You don't
need any social media following.
The time to return on your investment is
moderate, and I say moderate because it
could be it can be overnight if you pick
the right thing.
And the long-term potential is I think
is exceptional because there's a lot of
people who still don't even know how to
use AI, don't
how to use any of these programs. What
you'll need to be really good at to
succeed in this is you'll need to be
very, very creative and consistent. You
have to consistently be creating
something that people are like, I I want
to buy that. So, we're talking you can
create downloadable journals, wall art,
you can create templates for people.
There's so many people are like, I I
want to sell um uh meal plans, but I
don't know how to make them look pretty.
Uh I need to do a a webinar, but I I
don't know my slides look like crap. So,
there's so many ways that you can
make a boatload of money
with digital downloads.
You're not carrying any inventory.
There's like no cost to start other than
investing in someone who can show you
how to do this, right? So, here's some
of our examples. Uh Julie Berringer,
these are all students. So, these aren't
people like I found on the internet. Th-
This is a student. She is a digital
sells digital downloads as a side
hustle. Now, she made 12K her first
year. Do you know why I love this?
I love that telling you that stat
because it's not a million dollars.
It is a thousand dollars. She made a
thousand dollars a month.
And I don't know about you,
but that can feel pretty life-changing
when you're like, yeah, we can't afford
this $2,000 repair on the car.
I'm not saying like that's enough, but
it's enough to make a huge difference.
Think about what $12,000 buys.
And it's a side hustle.
And the cool thing about a side hustle
is like once you figure it out, it gets
bigger and bigger, and then you start
getting really good at it. Then it
doesn't take as much time. And then the
next thing you know, you're like, I can
start now. I've got this idea for
another side hustle.
Right? And so, that's how you start
creating multiple streams. You're going
to hear me keep saying that, multiple
streams. How about becoming a nano
influencer? This is a heavy, heavy,
heavy time commitment. I'm just going to
tell you that. You need at least 5 to
10k followers, great return on
investment.
I think there's great good to great
long-term potential, but you got to have
personality for it.
So, don't think you're going to become a
nano influencer if you hate going on
camera. It ain't going to happen.
You got to be captivating. You got to be
yourself. You don't have to be a young
spring chicken, but you got to be you
got to be good on camera like my friend
Roxanne.
Okay. Amazon seller.
Okay, I think this is moderate to
advanced time because it it's kind of
like
everyone got into Amazon selling, so
it's kind of like Instagram where it's
like there's a ton of potential there,
but you have to stay on top of it cuz
it's constantly changing. You do not
need a following, but now it's starting
to help if you have a following. You're
seeing Amazon storefronts, people going
live on Amazon. The skills advance I in
my estimation are advanced. I mean, you
really have to understand selling. You
have to understand products. You have to
understand influence. You have to
understand attention to detail, and
you've got to be great at selling. I
freaking love this one.
Virtual coach and experts. Time varies,
but I love this one because every single
person who's watching me and can hear my
voice right now has expertise at
something. Now, think about that first
stream of income that I created after
Powder Blue Production.
I I didn't I was like, I don't have any
expertise. I don't have I just have an
opinion. I just have some advice, but I
don't know that I have expertise at
anything.
So, when someone asked me when I was
creating that that, you know, Car Smart
course, people were like, "So, what is
your your niche? What is your
expertise?" And I said, "Life."
Like
how broad can you get?
Right? So, you for sure, you have some
type of expertise, whether that
expertise is helping um your baby go to
sleep. Like this is one of our students.
She Same thing. She's like, "I don't I
don't have any expertise. I all I do I
just have kids." So, we took her through
the process of figuring out what her
experiences were and helped her create
branding around her expertise, which was
helping her baby fall asleep. Now, she's
the go-to expert on baby sleep. She
began marketing herself as a keynote
speaker. Now she's got all these
multiple streams of income. Now she's a
published author. She has brand deals
and she's earning over six figures doing
something that like a lot of you are
like, is I didn't even know that was an
expertise. Yeah.
Diane Black, she's my favorite person.
Like I know I've said that a couple
times, but Diane is awesome because uh
what was her expertise? Doodling.
And she loved teaching people how to
just do simple simple stick figure
doodles to explain difficult concepts
uh and started selling a digital course.
That took off. She made $125,000 in 1
year selling a course teaching people
how to doodle.
And since then, all these multiple
streams of income. Now she has a
membership. She's written books. She's
uh selling on Amazon. She's a paid
speaker. Like all these other
all these other streams of income. You
just can't be afraid to start. Affiliate
marketing, I love it. The time varies.
But here's what I will say about
affiliate marketing. You have to have
influence. You have to have a following.
I mean, it is essential. You have to, in
my opinion, unless you want to run ads,
right? So there is always exceptions,
but you you have to have the you have to
be so good at selling and understand
marketing and that psychology. You've
got to be creative. You yourself need to
be influential and very, very
trustworthy and sales-minded. So, you
know, I I know there's lots of people
saying like, oh no, you could just post
links here and there.
Okay. Let Let me just be honest with you
and tell you what's truly involved,
okay? It's possible.
Mary's one of those examples of people
who who did it. She made in 8 weeks, she
did accountability coaching with us and
in less than 8 weeks, she 5x'd her
income with affiliate sales.
Pretty cool. Freelancer or consultant?
Okay. So, let me show you one of our
freelancers. Um this is Megan Elder. She
created an online course. What is her uh
expertise? What What was it she was
marketing or in coaching other people to
learn how to do homeschool you know,
being a homeschool mom.
What about reselling? I love reselling.
Here's why I love reselling for. I love
reselling for anyone who's like, "I
don't have a following. I don't have any
money and I need money immediately. Like
right this second." Because you probably
have clutter in your home. Clutter is
valuable. Everything sells. Freaking
everything sells.
Unmatched socks
in your laundry room will sell.
I had a student sell a bag a bag of
unmatched socks
and make 50 bucks on a bag of unmatched
socks. Yes, I know. Mhm? I said,
"Please, I beg of you. Will you please
reach out to that buyer and ask them
why?" And like I I was hoping it wasn't
creepy. Then I'm like, "Will you ask
them why they wanted to buy them?"
You ready? They make sock puppets and
sell them on Etsy. Crazy, right?
I know. So, reselling is awesome.
Reselling it it it does require your
time. You need to be good at attention
to detail and you need to know where to
list. It's It's just like anything. You
can't just
You're not going to make money at these
things quickly if you're if you try to
figure it out yourself. Go to somebody
who specifically teaches you how to do
this. That's what Carissa did. Carissa
is one of our students. She had to pivot
in 2020 when her husband got laid off. A
lot of people experienced that in 2020.
She replaced both of their full-time
incomes reselling. Not the first
weekend,
but once she started like selling stuff
in her house like just to pay the bills,
she was like, "Oh my god, I Now she goes
out and buys other people's junk
or stuff that people donate and resells
it.
What about network marketing? So, first
of all, network marketing gets a bad rap
sometimes
because it's just like any other
industry. If you get into it for the
wrong reasons and if you do it the wrong
way, you're not going to succeed and
then you might feel like you were
scammed and so then you're angry with
everybody, but let me tell you, it is
legitimate.
And some of the most quality, ethical,
non-salesy,
phenomenal leaders I know are the people
who are killing it in network marketing
because they teach other people how to
build a business without them having to
have the idea. You don't have to come up
with the product. You don't have to You
don't have to build your own websites.
You don't have to process sales. You
don't have to worry about returns. It's
a wonderful way,
in my estimation, to learn how to be an
entrepreneur if you've got the right
mindset before joining it, okay? So,
here's what I want to say. It's The time
involved to be successful is moderate.
It is definitely not a quick thing in
most cases. It is super helpful to have
a following.
You know, and if you don't, then you
you've got to figure out how do I If I'm
going to be successful at this, how do I
build my following?
So, that's something to know. In terms
of your return on investment, again, it
depends on the company, depends on your
upline, depends on the products. There's
lots of things involved here, but it's
In my estimation, it's moderate to slow
compared to something like reselling
where you can make money tomorrow.
Um however, the long-term potential, in
my estimation, is good. I would normally
say great because
of the of the number of millionaires I
know, I would say the greatest
percentage of them are no in network
marketing.
And you probably wouldn't even be able
to tell because they don't do it the
cheesy, slimy, salesy way. They're great
leaders. They're great people.
I say it's good because I think there's
a lot of changes that are happening in
marketing and sales and laws regarding
uh freelancers and consultants and
employees. So, I think it's it's good.
It's it's wonderful, but I would be if I
was in network marketing and making a
lot of money right now, I would make
sure I had an an additional stream of
income. And you're perfectly suited for
that because you're a great leader.
You've got to be a great leader. You've
got to be influential. You need to be
persistent. You need to be trustworthy,
in my opinion, and have a decent size
following in order to quickly succeed in
network marketing. Some people might
disagree with me. Here's two of my
favorite network marketing millionaires.
They are also Marketing Impact Academy
members. They are also some of our
professors. They teach inside of my
academy. These are professors. But they
started with us as students. They
currently earn Are you ready? Six
figures a month. A month.
But not just from their network
marketing. They really figured out how
to brand themselves, how to teach their
form of leadership. They use so many
um methodologies of of creating
additional streams of income.
And they don't have to just rely on
their network marketing, but they
continue to pour back into their
community and that's why that continues
to grow. So, they're awesome. So, what
about done for you or done with you?
Okay? So, let's talk about what that
means. That means
done with you or done for you. That
means Chalene, I
have no idea how to set up my Instagram.
I don't know my branding. I don't know
what looks good. I don't know what I
should post. I've got a bakery. Can you
do it for me? That's called done for
you. That You can be a done for you
consultant. The person who's like, I
don't I don't know um what my brand
should be. I don't know what my niche
should be. I don't know what I should
sell. I don't know how I should market
myself. I don't know how I should I
don't know what the email should look
like that I need to send to the the
representatives who I want to sponsor
me. I want to start a pod I mean, I've
got a podcast, but I I don't know how to
any of those things, right? Like so, you
can figure out how to do all the stuff
yourself. But this industry is blowing
up. Do you know why? Because a lot of us
are smart enough to go like
I don't want to be the expert who knows
how to do all I am I just want to market
me. I'll let somebody else do all that
for me. Let somebody else do all the I
don't want to have to learn all that.
It's just getting out of control. I want
to pay someone to do it for me.
So maybe you've started a a website.
Maybe you've started a podcast. Maybe
you you've done these things. You've got
a great Instagram and you're like I can
do this for other people. That's what
done for you is. It is a high ticket
item because you've got the expertise
and you're trading your time, right? So
time is moderate to high. You don't need
to follow and but I think it's helpful
with if you have ads. The return on
investment very very fast. Long
potential extremely high and getting
higher in my opinion. You need to be
super confident. You need to be
supportive.
Have attention to detail and you need to
be good at customer service cuz you're
going to be dealing with people who are
like I don't I don't like that. Here's
an example of those like Warren Carlyle.
He's a brand strategist. He did this for
Emily D. Baker.
Emily's like my expertise is the law.
I don't want to have to reach out to
these brands. I don't want to have to
figure out what I should charge. I don't
want to have to negotiate. Warren does
that for her. Rory Vaden. What he does
is he takes top people like and and by
the way Rory is also one of our
professors inside the academy and so is
Warren. Rory takes people like Amy
Porterfield, Lewis Howes, like all the
big names you know and he's like I will
get you on the uh let me do all of the
legwork for you to get on the New York
Times best seller list. Let's take your
book. Let's figure out your business and
let's help you become an a New York
Times best seller. You don't need to
figure that out. I've already done it.
And I mean that's a great business. Last
but not least, master reselling rights.
Now let me just clarify this. Master
reselling rights is There's a lot of
confusion. Let me break this down for
you. Master reselling rights people have
started to use that as a course name.
It's not. It's a term.
It's a term that describes the way a
course is licensed.
I have sold my own programs, fitness
programs, to big companies and given
them master reselling rights. That means
I've given them the right to sell the
thing that I created as their own.
I've given them master reselling rights.
It's a term.
So, you can create a course or an ebook
or a digital download and you can give
the buyer the right to resell it as many
times as they want.
You can also put certain stipulations in
there like, you can resell this, but you
can't add to it. You can resell this,
but you can't change it. You can resell
this, but it has to be, you know, fill
in the blank. You are the person who's
writing the contract for the purchase of
that
intellectual property
and you're reselling it. What would be
the advantages? For me, the advantage of
reselling something I created was
negotiating that purchase. So, for me to
sell something like PiYo, which was
that's my own creation. I created a
workout program. And if I am negotiating
with a company that I know can sell sell
tens of millions of copies of that, but
I can't cuz I only have, you know, I've
under a million followers,
I can negotiate a very high rate.
So, that's one reason why. Another
reason why somebody might create a So,
I've got friends who have I have a
friend who created an ebook
and sold that to people with master
reselling rights. And inside that ebook
it it was an ebook on nutrition. And
inside that ebook was the link to her
multi-level marketing company, her
network marketing company, and people
joined. So, even though she gave people
the master reselling rights to her
ebook, she was making all of her money
from the links inside the ebook. So,
there's a couple different ways why
somebody who when you create something
with master resell rights
or marketing rights, you can make money
if there's things inside the course, the
thing that people are going to come back
to you. So maybe you're setting up your
website, maybe you're setting up system
IO, maybe you're setting up anything.
Maybe you're talking about maybe you're
giving people the opportunity to sell a
book that includes just smoothie
recipes.
But in that ebook that you let everybody
else resell it and they get 100% of the
profits, right? They they don't nothing
comes back to you. You can resell that
that book and you can put a link to your
affiliate code for a blender.
And now and in the ebook you're like
well the best blender to have is this
one and so now everyone's now you're
getting paid
from people you've never met. So that's
how master reselling works. At it's kind
of like white labeling but it's
different because it is different. So
there's lots of different marketing
terms. I'm not going to go into them. I
just want to give you an overview today.
I think it's very interesting. It is a
legitimate
form of licensing.
What's happened however and this is just
my personal opinion
is
people right now are all a buzz about a
particular course that somebody created
using
that form of licensing. Let's just call
the name of the course green tree, okay?
So they made a course course called
green tree marketing. And when they when
you buy it, you can now call it
Sheleen's marketing and you can get 100%
of the profits. That's master reselling.
Uh that that is uh you know you're
you're giving them the rights to to
resell it.
The problem is if I've sold this course
now to a bunch of other people and I'm
not I don't know anything about
marketing. You're just selling
something, you know? And that's fine.
It's just not my style. I want you to
build something that relates to your
long-term objective. It relates to your
expertise. It relates to your niche. And
I think there are plenty of people who
are doing this and they do it right. It
is not white labeling. White labeling,
you're not giving somebody It's a form
of master reselling, but it's it's
complicated and it's different. It's
It's really It's boils down to the legal
terms. So, what do I think about this
new course that everyone's going bonkers
over? Um first of all, I think it was a
brilliant of the people who created it.
I think that was brilliant. I think
they've done a great job.
I think that the time to make your money
back reselling something depends on your
following, right? So, if if I say, "Hey,
you can resell this ebook that I created
on, you know, how how to lose 10 lb in
10 days." And you can resell it all day
long. Well, you're not going to sell it
if you don't have a following, but once
you do sell it, that's pretty fast,
right? So, you immediately get your
recoup your investment. Um the skills I
list those as moderate, and here's why.
Because you have got it you It's
selling. So, if you're not influential,
if you don't have a following, if you're
not trustworthy, if you don't know how
to be how to sell without being salesy,
and if you're not sales-minded,
then it's just, you know, a couple of
one-offs and then you're done. And
and then people look to you and go like,
"Yeah, they're just always like selling
whatever to make a quick buck."
And it it will do more damage to your
reputation if you do it in that way.
I say that and I have to speak very
broadly because I'm not just talking
about this course. I'm talking about you
selling anything that you don't truly
understand, use, and have benefited
from. Every month,
at least two or three affiliates will
come and want to sponsor my podcast or
ask me to promote their thing and, you
know, tell me what what I'm going to
make. And I'm like, "I don't use that. I
don't like that. I don't really
understand it. It's not I don't even get
it."
And I my reputation, I can't get it
back. So, I'm not going to sell
something that I don't fully understand
and I don't fully use.
And I'm not speak speaking specifically
about this course that everyone's
talking about. I'm speaking in general,
whether it you're doing affiliate sales
or selling someone else's course or
you're an Amazon If you If you're
telling people to buy something that
you've never used,
you don't understand, you don't really
have the expertise to even know if it's
good or if it's just somebody reading a
script from Chat GPT,
you just screwed me and I you will never
get my trust back. But if you do know
those things, well then I and I can
trust you and you have, you know, you
are using that product, you are using
that lotion, you have experience with
the customer service and and you know
how long it's going to last and and then
you're telling me to buy, well then I I
trust you and trust is freaking
everything in my estimation. That's why
I am just very, very
honest. In order for any of these to
work,
and and to not feel like you've been
scammed because you or for you to say
like, I tried and it didn't work,
is you got to set your business up the
right way,
even if it's a side hustle. And most
people don't do that. They just throw
something at the wall and they're like,
I'm going to try this and then they they
try to do it themselves, they have no
freaking clue. It's like bringing home
a table from I like a bookshelf. No, an
armoire from IKEA and just go, "Yeah,
I'm going to try to put it together
myself without any tools or the
instructions."
Good
luck. You might get one meal out of that
table. You know what I'm saying? Like,
so that's the first thing is like you
there's some things if you don't do it
right, you're just going to keep going
back to the drawing board and you're
going to be one of those people
Maybe tell me if you are. One of those
people who's like, "I tried and that and
it didn't work. I tried that and it
didn't work. I tried that and it didn't
work. That doesn't work for me, but I
have an excuse, excuse, excuse." Yeah,
but that's why is because you're you're
trying to build the third story of your
house without ever putting the
foundation in. The found The basement
isn't sexy.
The first floor isn't sexy. But if
you're going to build that house you
have It's not sexy. That is why most
people will never be successful. Like
I'm out here on the road and it's lonely
out here because most people don't have
the patience or the persistence to do
the stuff that's not sexy. They just
want to do social media. They just want
to make money like how how can I make
money and social so social media can I
do this social she was like, "Shut up.
Simmer down and get your self in order.
Like it's It doesn't take long. We're
talking 2 weeks. What I'm about to tell
you right now, I'm going to I'm going to
show you what I mean by setting up the
foundation of your business. It's less
than 2 weeks.
And still, no offense. I hope that
you're the exception. 98% of you will
never freaking do it.
For the same reason, 98% of people will
never do the work they need to secure
all their their assets online like
setting up two-factor authentication and
making sure that you have all of the
steps in place to avoid getting hacked.
Does everyone like, "Eh, yeah. I don't
Yeah, that sounds hard."
It's not. Like your mom can figure out
how to do it. Well, I hope you enjoyed
that. I I cut the training there because
the second half of the training I was
really explained to people what it's
like to and what it means and and what
process we use to evaluate the people
who are the right fit to work with
myself and with our team at Team Johnson
Marketing Impact Academy and the
different programs that we offer. I hope
that was helpful for you. If you would
like more information about working with
myself, working with in the Marketing
Impact Academy, which is our
unbelievable program that's helped tens
of thousands of people figure out the
right side hustle and then build a
business from scratch. I want you to
check out the link that we placed right
at the top of our show notes that allows
you to get on our waitlist for the next
time that we open up registration. All
right, thanks for watching. I'll see you
soon.